# Final-Project-Capella
State Physical Education Requirements and Adolescent Health

This repository includes information on state physical education requirements and adolescent health based on information from SHAPE America's 2016 Shape of the Nation report and the CDC's 2019 Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance System for high school students.

The main inputs of this repository are data surrounding physical education policies in high schools. This data was taken form the SHAPE America 2016 Shape of the Nation report. The other main input for this repository is a set of health outcomes downloaded from the CDC's website. This data comes from their 2019 Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance System for high school students. The last input is a shapefile of the United States downloaded from the U.S. Census web page. Information on how to obtain these data can be found in the .pdf file in this repository called "RepositoryInformation.pdf"

The scripts follow a sequential order which should be followed, because many scripts require a file that was produced in the previous script in order to work. The scripts are named based on their order (beginning with 1, 2, and so on). For more information on the order in which you must run the scripts as well as each scripts specific inputs and outputs, look in the .pdf file in this repository called "RepositoryInformation.pdf".

Outputs for this repository include a multi-panel heatmap that outlines state adolescent health characteristics. The main outputs for the repository are a series of scatterplots set up in quadrants that compare different health outcomes to a state's "score", which is based on the presence of certain  physical education policies in the state. The final output that may be of use is a gpkg file that includes data surrounding adolescent health, state physical education policies, and scores that has been joined to a TIGER shape file. This .gpkg file may be very useful in visually displaying adolescent health trends and/or state physical education requirements by state using GIS software.

The goal of this project was to look at the relationship between state physical education requirements and adolescent health. While no strong relationship was proven, several interesting pieces of information came out of this analysis surrounding adolescent health outcomes for states, state physical education requirements, and how those two variables interact. Furthermore, when the final data set was plugged into some simple linear regressions, there were some statistically significant relationships, specifically surrounding scores and the amount of physical activity that students received each week. There was also a fairly strong relationship between prohibiting the use of physical activity as a punishment and lowered frequency physical activity for high school students.
